I grew up in a country where people judge you
according to the color of your skin.
There was black, white, mixed race,
but we all kept separate.
I needed to learn,
not to see color, but to see people.
Even though it’s such a multicultural area,
there is still this prejudice that exists.
I’ve witnessed times
where ones from another country
are often left isolated or are treated
in a way that they’re not welcome here.
If we’re not careful, these attitudes
could creep into the congregation.
We could have isolated groups
of cultures that maybe would stick together.
In the area where I grew up,
young ones show great respect for older ones.
Older ones, however,
do not give much importance to young people.
This attitude, or culture,
has a major impact on recommendations
of young ones as elders in the congregation.
We might say, ‘In my opinion, he is too young
to be appointed as an elder
in the congregation.’
In this area, people sort of open up to you
when you appear rich.
In some areas, they would even wonder
what you are doing there
if you don’t have the right kind of looks
in terms of what you can afford to wear,
what kind of car you can afford to drive,
what your profession is.
If we brought that with us
into the Christian congregation,
then what Solomon mentions
could be the case
—that we actively seek the friendship
of those whom we regard to be rich
and abandon those who are poor.
I like the example in Galatians of Peter.
He grew up in an area
where there was a lot of prejudice.
It wasn’t something
that he overcame straightaway.
If I’m not careful,
I think it would be easy for me
to slide back and see people
as a different race,
and that would affect the way I view
my brothers and sisters in the congregation.
The article mentions
that when we use the Bible,
it helps us to make changes.
We need to constantly look at ourselves
so that we can continue to make progress.
In the article, it mentioned
about ‘opening our hearts wide’
—whether it’d be
working with them in the ministry
or having them over socially,
not just from the same group
that we might be comfortable with,
but actually with different ones
from different backgrounds.
Timothy was still a young man,
but the apostle Paul
had given him heavy responsibility
in the congregation.
The article mentions that ‘the Scriptures
do not give an exact age
for recommendation of brothers
as ministerial servants or elders.’
Recommending a younger brother
as an elder in the congregation
has been a great blessing to us.
In the article, there was a little phrase
that has become a guiding principle for me.
Jehovah does not judge
our relationship with him
by what we possess.
So when I meet new brothers and sisters
and for a moment I’m tempted
to judge, or view, them
according to those sentiments
as to whether they are rich or poor,
that principle comes into my mind.
My focus, therefore,
shifts to who they really are
in terms of their devotion to Jehovah
—their faith.
That is what we build friendships on.
I have friends
from different cultures, different races.
And I don’t see them as color,
but I see my brother or my sister.
I’ve got the most amazing friendships
with ones
from different backgrounds and cultures
—something I will always, always cherish.
So our congregation
is a wonderful place for everybody.
There is no emphasis
on who is rich and who is poor.
Friendships are built
on the basis of our love for Jehovah.